before I get to the bulk of what I have
to say I feel compelled just to mention
a couple of things about myself I am NOT
some mystical spiritual sort of person
I'm a science writer I studied physics
in college I used to be a science
correspondent for NPR okay that said in
the course of working on a story for NPR
I got some advice from an astronomer
that challenged my outlook and frankly
changed my life you see the story was
about an eclipse a partial solar eclipse
that was set to cross the country in May
of 1994 and the astronomer I interviewed
him and he explained what was going to
happen and how to view it but he
emphasized that as interesting as a
partial solar eclipses a much rarer
total solar eclipse is completely
different in a total eclipse for all of
two or three minutes the moon completely
blocks the face of the Sun creating what
he described as the most awe-inspiring
spectacle in all of nature and so the
advice he gave me was this before you
die he said you owe it to yourself to
experience a total solar eclipse well
honestly I felt a little uncomfortable
hearing that from someone I didn't know
very well it felt sort of intimate but
it got my attention and so I did some
research now the thing about total
eclipses is if you wait for one to come
to you you're going to be waiting a long
time any given point on Earth
experiences a total eclipse about once
every four hundred years but if you're
willing to travel you don't have to wait
that long and so I learned that a few
years later in nine
1998 a total eclipse was going to cross
the Caribbean now a total eclipse is
visible only along a narrow path about a
hundred miles wide and that's where the
moon's shadow falls it's called the path
of totality and in February 1998 the
path of totality was going to cross
Aruba so I talked to my husband and we
thought well February Aruba sounded like
a good idea anyway
so so we headed south to enjoy the Sun
and to see what would happen when the
Sun briefly went away well the day of
the Eclipse found us and many other
people out behind the Hyatt Regency on
the beach waiting for the show to begin
and we wore Eclipse glasses with
cardboard frames and really dark lenses
that enabled us to look at the Sun
safely and a total eclipse begins as a
partial eclipse as the moon very slowly
makes its way in front of the Sun so
first it looked like the Sun had a
little notch in its edge and then that
notch grew larger and larger turning the
Sun into a crescent and it was all very
interesting but I wouldn't say it was
spectacular I mean the day remained
bright if I hadn't known what was going
on overhead I wouldn't have noticed
anything unusual well about 10 minutes
before the total solar eclipse was set
to begin weird things started to happen
a cool wind kicked up daylight looked
odd and shadows became very strange they
they looked bizarrely sharp as if
someone had turned up the contrast knob
on TV and then I looked offshore and I
noticed running lights on boats so
clearly it was getting dark although I
hadn't realized it well soon it was
obvious it was getting dark it felt like
my eyesight was failing and then all of
a sudden the lights went out well at
that a cheer erupted from the beach and
I took off my Eclipse glasses because at
this point during the total eclipse it
was safe to look at the Sun with the
naked eye
and I glanced upward and I was just
dumbstruck now consider that at this
point I was in my mid-30s I I had lived
on earth long enough to know what the
sky looks like
I mean I'd seen blue sky and gray skies
and starry skies it's angry skies and
pink skies at sunrise but here was a sky
I had never seen so first there were the
colors up above it was a deep purple
grey like Twilight but on the horizon it
was orange like sunset 360-degrees and
up above in the Twilight bright stars
and planets had come out so there was
Jupiter and there was mercury and there
was a Venus and they were all in a line
and there how long this line was this
staying this glorious bewildering thing
it it looked like a wreath woven from
silvery thread and it just hung out
there in space shimmering now that was
the sun's outer atmosphere the solar
corona and pictures just don't do it
justice it's not just a ring or halo
around the Sun it's finely textured like
it's made out of strands of silk and
although it looked nothing like our Sun
of course I knew that's what it was so
there was the Sun and there were the
planets and I could see how the planets
revolve around the Sun it's like I had
left our solar system and was standing
on some alien world looking back at
creation and for the first time in my
life I just felt viscerally connected to
the universe in all of its immensity
time
or just kind of felt non-existent and
and what I beheld with my eyes I didn't
just see it it felt like a vision and I
stood there in this Nirvana for all of
174 seconds less than three minutes when
all of a sudden it was over the Sun
burst out the blue sky returned the
stars and the planets and the corona
were gone the world returned to normal
but I had changed and that's how I
became an Umbra file and Eclipse chaser
and so this is how I spend my time and
hard-earned money every couple of years
I head off to wherever the moon's shadow
will fall to experience another couple
minutes of cosmic bliss and to share the
experience with others with friends in
Australia with an entire city in Germany
in 1999 in Munich
I joined hundreds of thousands who
filled the streets and the rooftops and
cheered in unison as the solar corona
emerged and over time I've become
something else and Eclipse evangelists
I see it as my job to pay forward the
advice that I received all those years
ago and so let me tell you before you
die you owe it to yourself to experience
a total solar eclipse it is the ultimate
experience of awe
now that word awesome has grown so
overused that it's lost its original
meaning true ah a sense of wonder and
insignificance in the face of something
enormous and grand is rare in our lives
but when you experience it it's powerful
ah dissolves the ego it makes us feel
connected indeed it promotes empathy and
generosity
well there is nothing truly more awesome
than a total solar eclipse unfortunately
few Americans have seen one because it's
been 38 years since one last touched the
continental United States and 99 years
since one last cross the breath of the
nation but that is about to change over
the next 35 years five total solar
eclipses will visit the continental
United States
and three of them will be especially
grande six weeks from now on August 21st
2017 the moon shadow will race from
Oregon to South Carolina April 8th 2024
the moon shadow heads north from Texas
to Maine in 2045 on August 12th the path
cuts from California to Florida I say
what if we made these holidays what if
we
what if what if we all stood together as
many people as possible in the shadow of
the moon just maybe this shared
experience of awe would help heal our
divisions get us to treat each other
just a bit more humanely now admittedly
some folks consider my evangelizing a
little out there my obsession eccentric
I mean why focus so much attention on
something so brief why cross the globe
or state lines for that matter for
something that lasts three minutes as I
said I am NOT a spiritual person I don't
believe in God I wish I did but when I
think of my own mortality and I do a lot
when I think of everyone I have lost my
mother in particular what soothes me is
that moment of awe I had in Aruba I
picture myself on that beach looking at
that sky and I remember how I felt my
existence may be temporary but that's
okay because my gosh look at what I'm a
part of and so this is a lesson I've
learned and it's one that applies to
life in general duration of experience
does not equal impact one weekend one
conversation how one glance can change
everything
cherish those moments of deep connection
with other people with the natural world
and make them a priority yes I chase
eclipses you might chase something else
but it's not about the 174 seconds it's
about how they change the years that
come after thank
[Applause]